Now that I'm reviewing some of the transcript I see the model had issues with
some of the audio or something. I think I need to find a better model.

It translated "your mine is a netherese base" into "your mind is a netherese
face": poetic, but wrong.

Session 8 picks up exactly where they left off:

- They're in the chamber with Lord Neverember and the three miners who are now
  their buddies.
- The door to the rest of the netherese construction is open.
- Neverember will want to get back to town, but the kids are almost certainly
  going to want to explore the chamber
- The 3,000 gp from Lord Neverember is a verbal agreement so far, and I think
  it would be more accurate to say that he has agreed to pay to build and
  staff the inn and he expects it to cost less than 3k gp, which for him is
  probably true because he doesn't have to pay his own fees. They'll probably
  see a few hundred of that which will be earmarked for supplies until the
  place becomes self-sustaining.

Yes, the base is the biggest concern I have. Can you see if there are any
existing maps online of netherese constructions? I want to be true to their
style and maybe borrow some content if possible. That will also inform the
answers to the rest of your questions. However, I can say there is no
connection to Thunder Mountain because that's several miles away and entirely
different people.


Yes, we should decide what the presets point to and why. I don't even remember
what I said about the presets already and I can't find it in the transcripts.
Destinations I think the Netheress are likelty to have found and bookmarked,
besides the nine hells, are the Feywild, Shadowfell and The Seven Heavens. My
thinking is that The Feywild and Shadowfell are canonically "parallel" to the
prime material, and the hells and heavens are the extremes of "good" and "bad"
and therefore easier to find. I'm open to suggestions though.


It's up to the kids to decide what to do about the portal, but I'm pretty sure
they want to keep it secret both for their sake and for everyone else's. I
think they also want to keep it pointed to as safe of a destination as
possible, which might just be the outskirts of the hells, and maybe that's
_why_ it was pointed there.


Inn decisions can wait. As far as the kids are concerned, Lord Neverember is
on top of that. He'll assign a lacky to do the actual organization and there
won't be any evidence of the new business in town for at least a couple of
days. They will likely re-purpose whatever building is across from the
existing inn so customers can see both choices at the same time, and that
means they'll have to pay whoever's there now to move and they will either
take the existing building down because it wasn't built to last or retrofit
it. All that's going to take a while to orchestrate. Unless the kids do an
exploration montage in the Netherese base, they'll be back in town the same
day they left.

I expect the kids would love to be involved in the inn development. Whoever
Neverember puts in charge will have final say but they'l be happy to get input
from Smol and Sonbgird.


I envision Neverember's team as four regular adventurers and two planar
specialists/scholars. (This would make a good seed for a game of its own!) I
figure it's the standard Tank, DPS, Controller, Healer template plus the
specialists. At least one of the first four should have some extra-planar
experience, just so they know what to expect from planar travel.

I'd like a rich mix of species, classes, alignments and such. I think I might
have the kids make some of the decisions for these NPCs so that I don't
outnumber the two players at the table so much, but I want the NPC's character
sheets fully filled out and I'll want to sketch backstories for them. We'll
about that in a bit.

Regarding arrival time: they're coming from Waterdeep and Neverwinter, so
travel time from those places plus one day to actually recruit them.

The specialists are going to be experts in their field who work at whatever
the biggest research institutions on The Sword Coast are. The other four will
be seasoned adventurers who have been adventuring together for a while and
just wrapped up another big job in one of the two big cities. They're
loyalties lie with themselves, then each other, then money, then the client.
Neverember knows them because he hired them for their most recent job. He's
always paying adventurers to handle things he can't do officially. This is one
of the few groups he works with who know they've been working for him. Usually
he uses an intermediary to protect his reputation. The adventurers have no
hidden agenda. They're in it for glory and gold. The scholars... maybe? I need
to think about that.


Doom clocks:

I'm glad you reminded me about Elder Thuul. I think she's super smart, by any
standards, goblin or otherwise, and decides to send a squad to the mountain to
keep an eye on it. The goblin squad are smart enough not to tangle with the
facility defenses, but they'll know the bulettes have been driven from the
mountain because the ones that ran away will have been seen fighting with the
local wildlife. I suppose they'll also see the owlbears pursuing the bulettes
since that's their original food source on the mountain. But the kids won't
know any of this. I'm just mentioning it to keep track of in the notes.

The situation with the Redbrands is interesting. I think they must know the
kids left town because the town would have talked about it. They kids are
celebrities in Phandalin now. Hm. I bet the mayor is hoping to use the
Redbrands as a potential backup plan for taking control of the facility
because he doesn't know that the kids have hero's advantage. Anyway, I think
the Redbrands guessed the kids triggered the light show, so they're preparing
to try to steal the facility form them when they come back. But they don't
have the resources to track the kids remotely with scrying and such, so
they're just going to wait in Phandalin, do minor crimes to sustain themselves
and hope to catch the kids off guard whenever they come back.

With the Owlbears, I think the one they interacted with in session 2 has been
awakened and wants to reconnect with them, so if they don't show up in the
next week she'll go looking for them. Can they fly? Or are they more bear than
owl? https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/5195152-owlbear only lists speed and
climb speed, no fly speed, so I'm guessing no. Their move speed is 40 which
comes to about 4.5 mph if they never stop. I guess she won't go looking for
them. If they come back within a week, the whole owlbear family will still be
on the mountain, otherwise it will just be the mama bear who is waiting for
them to come back. If they do take more than a week (four days left) to return
to the facility, I will have Carl relay a message from the facility that a
single owlbear stayed behind after the rest left. That is sure to tug at their
heart strings and bring them back. :)

And that will be an opportunity for the Redbrands to jump them. Which means
the Redbrands need to be ready in five days at most. I think they might not be
ready, especially if the party brings their Neverember-assigned escort with
them. Which they might not. Who knows!


The status of the facility

- They already received an update about the bulettes being gone. That means
  the facility's resources can be fully devoted to repairs, hardening defenses
  and building the lower levels that Ray defined before he died.
- Primus-3R is fully repaired and getting crystal production back online.
- In five more days defenses will be fully hardened, meaning the mountain will
  be bristling with defensive equipment disguised as folliage and rocks, and
  there will be a lot more robots available to patrol the internal perimiters.
- I just realized the facility doesn't know its new adminstrators like the
  owlbears. That changes things. Mama owlbear is going to have to leave the
  mountain's defensive perimiter. I guess she'll be in the foothills living
  off of wolves, boars, deer, etc.
- So, as of start of session 8, the owlbears are traveling down the mountain
  as the facility restores its defenses, and in four more in-game days that
  will be done, they'll get a message about it and the facility will resume
  its default programming to work on the lower levels. That work has months to
  go. The area is still getting hollowed out, then it needs to be wired and
  plummed, then it needs to have the new, larger anvil built. I'm imagining it
  being a mechanism the size of a BelAZ 75710: 30' tall, 35' wide, 70' long.
  Ray had big ideas. It will also take months to expand the energy capture
  system sufficiently to run the thing.


Netherese - I don't remember saying they went to another plane. I think I
might have meant that they _could_ have been _trying_ to do that. I'll text
the kids and ask them if they remember and if not, I'll ditch that thread.

There is no connection between the portal and the facility, they just happen
to both feature resonance as part of how they work. Because everything in real
life is heavily influenced by resonances and it's something I understand that
is also mysterious.


Planar exploration:

I'm going to need to set some DCs for various things they could try to do.

Using one of the presets is going to be a high DC Arcana check the first few
times, then she'll get the hang of it. (Smol's the only one of the two who can
read the Netherese.) If she does decide to point it at one of the presets, the
location within the plane will be somewhere far from busy places, just like
the part of the hells the portal is currently pointed at... Am I correct in
thinking time passes at a different speed in Faerie than in the prime
material? Is it faster or slower or just different or DM's choice?

I think successfully targeting a known plane that isn't already a preset is
something that would take many months. In however long the Netherese had this
thing running they only found found four locations they wanted to save in the
presets, and three of them are (as I understand it) relatively easy to get to
other ways.

Targeting an unknown plane takes less time (because there are so many of
them), but finding one that is in any way useful would still take many weeks.
Finding an unknown plane with a specific trait (like "futuristic") would take
longer than finding a known plane.

Changing the location within a plane that they already have a connection to is
something they can learn in a day and takes a few minutes once they learn it.

If they focus entirely on making the portal point somewhere besides the
presets, they'll have to set up a system for keeping themselves fed and such
while they work at the machine, and if they do all that in session 8, the
cliffhanger will be them finding a new plane.

As for the unknown presets... I don't remember what I said about that either.
I'll ask the kids about that too.

Got a response:

> They disappeared a few hundred years ago. Not sure if their cities fell out
> of the sky when they disappeared or if they reorganized on the ground for a
> while before disappearing. No explanation why their cities fell yet. 

I'll say Shadowfell and Seven Heavens are two of the ones they couldn't
understand without a point of reference.

> Presets were fae/elf plane, mindflayer deep speak type place, then three
> other planes or worlds that couldn't be described since our characters had
> no knowledge of them or reference point 

I just read on forgottenrealms.fandom.com that the mind flayers are from the
underdark which is on the prime material, so the preset that she read as
a mindflayer place must be the astral plane? Or is there a particular plane
that they dominate more than the material?

